cif-demo
========
Interoperability demonstration.


Dependencies
============
* soft5 (https://github.com/LORCENIS/soft5)


Subset of CIF considered here
=============================
This describes a minimal subset of CIF. Not recognised data an loop
tags and should simply be ignored. See
http://www.iucr.org/resources/cif/spec/version1.1/cifsyntax for a
description of the full CIF specification and grammar and
http://www.iucr.org/__data/iucr/cifdic_html/1/cif_core.dic/index.html
for the core CIF dictionary (for data and loop tags).

Reserved words
--------------

    data_<XXX> (case-insensitive)
    Starts a data block. <XXX> is an identifier for the current data
    block. It is followed by one or more data tags (see below) or loops
    starting with the loop_ reserved loop. The data block continues to the
    end of file or to the next data block.

    loop_ (case-insensitive)
    A reserved word identifying a looped list of data. It is followed by a
    loop header of a white-space separated list of loop tags (see
    below). This is followed by the loop body, which is a white-space
    separated list of values corresponding to the tags (typically this is
    formatted as one or more rows with the column corresponding to the
    tags). See the example CIF files on the wiki.

Data tags
---------

    _symmetry_Int_Tables_number
    Space-group number from International Tables for Crystallography
    Vol. A (2002).

    _cell_length_a
    _cell_length_b
    _cell_length_c
    _cell_angle_alpha
    _cell_angle_beta
    _cell_angle_gamma
    Unit cell parameters. Cell lengths are in Ångström and angles are
    in degree.

Loop tags
---------

    _atom_site_label
    A unique identifier for a particular site in the crystal. Typically
    this will be the chemical symbol of the atom occupying this site,
    optionally followed by an number (e.g. "Cu1"), an underscore
    (e.g. "Zn_Zn_301_A_O") or an asterix (e.g. H*251). Other labels are
    possible, but not considered here.

    _atom_site_type_symbol (optional)
    A code to identify the atom species (singular or plural) occupying
    this site. Typically the chemical symbol of the atom species
    (e.g. "Ni").

    _atom_site_site_symmetry_multiplicity (optional)
    The number of different sites that are generated by the application of
    the space-group symmetry to the coordinates given for this site. It is
    equal to the multiplicity given for this Wyckoff site in International
    Tables for Crystallography Vol. A (2002).

    _atom_site_Wyckoff_symbol (optional)
    The Wyckoff symbol (letter) as listed in the space-group tables of
    International Tables for Crystallography Vol. A (2002).

    _atom_site_fract_x
    _atom_site_fract_y
    _atom_site_fract_z
    Atom-site coordinates as fractions of the _cell_length_ values.

    _atom_site_occupancy (optional)
    The fraction of the atom type present at this site. The sum of the
    occupancies of all the atom types at this site may not exceed 1.0.

Values
------
Data values for data and loop tags may be a number, a word or enclosed in
single (') or double (") quotes.
